# Benchmark proving time

There are two types of benchmarks that can be used to get insight on the proving time necessary for each kind of proof
generated by the proof server. The first type will generate STARK core proofs, and represents the time it takes to
generate and prove execution of one of the programs. The second type will generate a SNARK proof that can be verified
on-chain, and represents the end-to-end time it takes to generate a proof that can be verified directly on-chain.
Due to the SNARK compression, the SNARK proofs take longer to generate and require more resources.

The worst case latency (described [here](../design/edge_cases.md)) can be evaluated by running the end-to-end benchmark
for each of the two proofs, and looking at the maximum of the time it took to genereate each proof.

The numbers we've measured using our [production configuration](../run/overview.md) are further detailed in the 
[E2E Benchmarks](./e2e.md) section. They are included below as well for reference:

For STARKs:
```
TODO FIXME
```

For SNARKs:
```
TODO FIXME
```

## Blob proofs on Ethereum

We're also working on a STARK verifier that could be used alongside Ethereum's new
[blob transactions](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-4844), which can be used to drastically minimize the gas costs
for large data such as STARK proofs. This is still experimental and an early work-in-progress, but
[preliminary](https://github.com/lurk-lab/sphinx/pull/51) benchmarks using an Ethereum-friendly hash function and
compression show that proof generation could be achieved at around 6 to 7 minutes.
