# Benchmark individual proofs.

In this section we will cover how to run the benchmarks for the individual proofs. The benchmarks are located in
the `light-client` crate folder.

Benchmarks can be classified in two distinct categories:

- _end-to-end_: Those benchmarks are associated with programs that are meant to reproduce
  a production environment settings. They are meant to measure performance for a complete
  end-to-end flow.
- _internals_: Those benchmarks are associated with programs that are solely meant for
  performance measurements on specific parts of the codebase. They are
  not meant to measure performance for, or reproduce a production environment settings.

## End-to-end

- [e2e](https://github.com/lurk-lab/zk-light-clients/blob/dev/aptos/light-client/benches/e2e.rs): Benchmark that will
  run a proof generation for both
  the [epoch change program](https://github.com/lurk-lab/zk-light-clients/blob/dev/aptos/programs/epoch-change/src/main.rs)
  and
  the [inclusion program](https://github.com/lurk-lab/zk-light-clients/blob/dev/aptos/programs/inclusion/src/main.rs).
  The goal here is to test the complete flow for our light client and get cycle count and proving time for it. Note that
  each proof is handled sequentially.
- [epoch_change](https://github.com/lurk-lab/zk-light-clients/blob/dev/aptos/light-client/benches/epoch_change.rs):
  Benchmark that will run a proof generation
  for [epoch change program](https://github.com/lurk-lab/zk-light-clients/blob/dev/aptos/programs/epoch-change/src/main.rs).
  This program will execute a hash for the received `ValidatorVerifier` to ensure that the signature is from the
  previous validator set, execute a `TrustedState::verify_and_ratchet_inner` and finally generate the hash for the
  verified `ValidatorVerifier`.
- [inclusion](https://github.com/lurk-lab/zk-light-clients/blob/dev/aptos/light-client/benches/inclusion.rs):
  Benchmark that will run a proof generation for
  the [inclusion program](https://github.com/lurk-lab/zk-light-clients/blob/dev/aptos/programs/inclusion/src/main.rs).
  It is meant to assess the cost of verifying a Merkle proof for a given leaf and a given root.

## Internals

- [sig](https://github.com/lurk-lab/zk-light-clients/blob/dev/aptos/light-client/benches/sig.rs): Benchmark that will
  run a proof generation for
  the [signature verification program](https://github.com/lurk-lab/zk-light-clients/blob/dev/aptos/programs/benchmarks/signature-verification/src/main.rs).
  This program mainly executes an aggregated signature verification for an aggregated signature and a set of public
  keys.

The benchmark that is the closest to a production scenario is `e2e`. Most of
the other benchmarks are more specific and are meant to assess the cost
of specific operations.

### Running the benchmarks

**Using Makefile**

To ease benchmark run we created a Makefile in the `light-client` crate folder.
Just run:

```shell
make benchmark
```

You will then be asked for the name of the benchmark you want to run. Just
fill in the one that is of interest to you:

```shell
$ make benchmark
Enter benchmark name: e2e

  ...
  
```

**Manual**

Run the following command:

```shell
cargo +nightly bench --features aptos --bench execute -- <benchmark_name>
```

## Interpreting the results

Before delving into the details, please take a look at the [cycle tracking documentation
from SP1](https://succinctlabs.github.io/sp1/writing-programs/cycle-tracking.html) to get a rough sense of what the
numbers mean.

The benchmark will output a lot of information. The most important parts are the
following:

**Total cycles for the program execution**

This value can be found on the following line:

```shell
INFO summary: cycles=63736, e2e=2506, khz=25.43, proofSize=2.66 MiB
```

It contains the total number of cycles needed for the program, the end-to-end time in milliseconds, the frequency of the
CPU in kHz, and the size of the proof generated.

**Specific cycle count**

In the output, you will find a section that looks like this:

```shell
DEBUG ┌╴read_inputs    
DEBUG └╴9,553 cycles    
DEBUG ┌╴verify_merkle_proof    
DEBUG └╴40,398 cycles    
```

These specific cycles count are generated by us to track the cost of specific operations in the program.

**Proving time**

The proving time is an output at the end of a benchmark in the shape of the following data structure, with each time in
milliseconds:

```json
{
  ratchet_proving_time: 100000,
  merkle_proving_time: 100000
}
```

## Alternative

Another solution to get some information about proving time is to run the tests located in the `light-client`
crate. They will output the same logs as the benchmarks, only the time necessary
to generate a proof will change shape:

```shell
Starting generation of Merkle inclusion proof with 18 siblings...
Proving locally
Proving took 5.358508094s
Starting verification of Merkle inclusion proof...
Verification took 805.530068ms
```

To run the test efficiently, first install `nextest` following [its documentation](https://nexte.st/book/installation).
Ensure that you also have the previously described environment variables set, then run the following command:

```shell
cargo +nightly nextest run --verbose --release --profile ci --features aptos --package aptos-lc --no-capture
```

> **Note**
>
> The `--no-capture` flag is necessary to see the logs generated by the tests.