# Benchmark individual proofs

In this section we will cover how to run the benchmarks for the individual proofs. The benchmarks are located in the
`light-client` crate folder. Those benchmarks are associated with programs that are meant to reproduce a production environment settings. They are meant to measure performance for a complete end-to-end flow.

The numbers we've measured using our [production configuration](../run/overview.md) are further detailed in the following section.

## Sync committee change

Benchmark that will run a proof generation for the sync committee change program. This program will execute a hash for the received
`LightClientStore::current_sync_committee` to ensure that the signature is from the previous sync committee set, execute a
`LightClientStore::process_light_client_update` and finally generate the hash for the new
`LightClientStore::current_sync_committee`.

On our [production configuration](../run/overview.md), we currently get the following results for SNARK generation for this benchmark:

For STARKS:

```json
{
  // Time in milliseconds, 2 minutes 10s ~
  "proving_time": 133511,
  "verification_time": 2469
}
```

For SNARKS:

```json
{
  // Time in milliseconds, 13 minute 13s ~
  "proving_time": 793280,
  "verification_time": 1
}
```

## Storage inclusion

Benchmark that will run a proof generation for the storage inclusion program. This program will execute a hash for the received
`CompactStore::sync_committee` to ensure that the signature is from the current known sync committee set, execute a
`CompactStore::validate_compact_update` to confirm that the received block information is one signed by the committee, and finally run an
`EIP1186Proof::verify` against the state root of the finalized execution block header.

On our [production configuration](../run/overview.md), we currently get the following results for SNARK generation for this benchmark:

For STARKS:

```json
{
  // Time in milliseconds, 1 minute 20s ~
  "proving_time": 83383,
  "verification_time": 2178
}
```

For SNARKS:

```json
{
  // Time in milliseconds, 11 minute 40s ~
  "proving_time": 700401,
  "verification_time": 1
}
```

## Running the benchmarks

**Using Makefile**

To ease benchmark run we created a Makefile in the `light-client` crate folder. Just run:

```shell
make benchmark
```

You will then be asked for the name of the benchmark you want to run. Just fill in the one that is of interest to you:

```shell
$ make benchmark
Enter benchmark name: committee_change

  ...
  
```

**Manual**

Run the following command:

```shell
SHARD_BATCH_SIZE=0 cargo bench --bench execute -- <benchmark_name>
```

## Interpreting the results

Before delving into the details, please take a look at the [cycle tracking documentation from SP1](https://succinctlabs.github.io/sp1/writing-programs/cycle-tracking.html) to get a rough sense of what the numbers mean.

The benchmark will output a lot of information. The most important parts are the following:

**Total cycles for the program execution**

This value can be found on the following line:

```shell
INFO summary: cycles=63736, e2e=2506, khz=25.43, proofSize=2.66 MiB
```

It contains the total number of cycles needed for the program, the end-to-end time in milliseconds, the frequency of the CPU in kHz, and the size of the proof generated.

**Specific cycle count**

In the output, you will find a section that looks like this:

```shell
DEBUG ┌╴read_inputs    
DEBUG └╴9,553 cycles    
DEBUG ┌╴verify_merkle_proof    
DEBUG └╴40,398 cycles    
```

These specific cycles count are generated by us to track the cost of specific operations in the program.

**Proving time**

The proving time is an output at the end of a benchmark in the shape of the following data structure, with each time in milliseconds:

```json
{
  ratchet_proving_time: 100000,
  merkle_proving_time: 100000
}
```

## Alternative

Another solution to get some information about proving time is to run the tests located in the `light-client`
crate. They will output the same logs as the benchmarks, only the time necessary to generate a proof will change shape:

```shell
Starting generation of Merkle inclusion proof with 18 siblings...
Proving locally
Proving took 5.358508094s
Starting verification of Merkle inclusion proof...
Verification took 805.530068ms
```

To run the test efficiently, first install
`nextest` following [its documentation](https://nexte.st/book/installation). Ensure that you also have the previously described environment variables set, then run the following command:

```shell
SHARD_BATCH_SIZE=0 cargo nextest run --verbose --release --profile ci --package ethereum-lc --no-capture --all-features
```

> **Note**
>
> The `--no-capture` flag is necessary to see the logs generated by the tests.

Some tests are ignored by default due to heavier resource requirements. To run them, pass `--run-ignored all`
to `nextest`.

A short list of useful tests:

- `test_execute_committee_change`: Executes the `committee_change` program.
- `test_prove_stark_committee_change`: Generates and verifies a STARK proof of the `committee_change` program.
- `test_prove_snark_committee_change`: Generates and verifies a SNARK proof of the `committee_change` program.

```
