# Inclusion proof

To bridge an account from the Ethereum chain to another chain at any given time the Light Client 
needs to prove that the given account exists in the chain state for the latest
block produced.

To do so, the Light Client will first need to verify that the signature on the latest block corresponds to the sync committee
known for the given period. Then, it will have to prove that the account is part of the updated state that this
block commits.

The inclusion program takes in an arbitrary Ethereum Merkle proof generated by and
fetched through the [EIP-1186](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1186) RPC endpoint.

## Inclusion program IO

[Program reference](https://github.com/argumentcomputer/zk-light-clients/blob/dev/ethereum/programs/inclusion/src/main.rs)

### Inputs

The following data structures are required for proof generation :

- **Light Client Store**: The current state of the Light Client, containing information about the latest handled finalized block and the known committees.
- **`EIP1186Proof`**: Data structure the data received from the `eth_getProof` RPC call.
### Outputs

- **Finalized header slot**: The slot of the finalized beacon header.
- **Hash of the signing sync committee**: The hash of the signing committee for the finalized beacon block.
- **Account address**: The address of the account being checked for inclusion.
- **Account value**: The value of the account being checked for inclusion.
- **Number of storage keys**: The number of storage keys being checked for inclusion.
- **Storage keys**: The keys of the storage being checked for inclusion.
- **Storage values**: The values of the storage being checked for inclusion.